.TH "DOCKER" "1" "APRIL 2014" "Docker User Manuals" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-tag \- Tag an image in the repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]docker tag\f[] [**\-\-help]
[\f[B]\-f\f[]|\f[B]\-\-force\f[][=\f[I]false\f[]] IMAGE
[REGISTRYHOST/][USERNAME/]NAME[:TAG]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This will give a new alias to an image in the repository.
This refers to the entire image name including the optional TAG after
the \[aq]:\[aq].
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\f[B]\-f\f[], \f[B]\-\-force\f[]=\f[I]true\f[]|\f[I]false\f[] When set
to true, force the alias.
The default is \f[I]false\f[].
.PP
\f[B]REGISTRYHOST\f[] The hostname of the registry if required.
This may also include the port separated by a \[aq]:\[aq]
.PP
\f[B]USERNAME\f[] The username or other qualifying identifier for the
image.
.PP
\f[B]NAME\f[] The image name.
.PP
\f[B]TAG\f[] The tag you are assigning to the image.
Though this is arbitrary it is recommended to be used for a version to
disinguish images with the same name.
Note that here TAG is a part of the overall name or "tag".
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Giving an image a new alias
.PP
Here is an example of aliasing an image (e.g.
0e5574283393) as "httpd" and tagging it into the "fedora" repository
with "version1.0":
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
docker\ tag\ 0e5574283393\ fedora/httpd:version1.0
\f[]
.fi
.SS Tagging an image for a private repository
.PP
To push an image to an private registry and not the central Docker
registry you must tag it with the registry hostname and port (if
needed).
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
docker\ tag\ 0e5574283393\ myregistryhost:5000/fedora/httpd:version1.0
\f[]
.fi
.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot
com) based on docker.io source material and internal work.
.SH AUTHORS
William Henry.
